>> [MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So
let's just hop right into it then.
Everybody should have the link for this.
These are going to be our notes,
or our slides.
I don't like to use actual slides,
I'm just worn out on slides, so
I just made a website, with the notes on
it and that's what we're gonna use, and
this will be here forever, probably
at the center README on the GitHub.
README so you can look at it.
So this is where we'll do our learnings
and then we'll have an app that we'll be
building and then, as far as the app,
the repo is gonna be here.
If you haven't got this go ahead and
fork it or clone it or
whatever your process is for
getting your repos.
Cool, so also I want to let you all know
to, if you have a question here on site,
just ask me, don't feel like
you have to wait until the end.
Just, I want to stay open.
Ask me as many questions as you want,
don't feel like you are slowing me down
and online, if you're joining us, just
hit up Mark with a K on the channel and
just ask him and
he will either answer it himself or
he'll ask me so just feel free to
ask as many questions as you can.
If you think I made a mistake or if you
didn't quite understand what I said,
don't let it go by, just totally ask me.
Great, so what are we gonna be doing for
these next three days in this workshop?
Well, like I said it's gonna be
around designing APIs with Node and
Mongo, and how all that works.
So, not only are we gonna be learning
how to design this stuff but
we're also gonna be building it of course.
We're gonna learn how to test it and we're
gonna be deploying it, which makes sense.
It wouldn't really be fair if I
showed you how to design an API and
not how to do the rest of that stuff.
That wouldn't be fair, it wouldn't be
setting you up for anything practical.
You should have some
experience with JavaScript.
I hope everybody here knows JavaScript.
If you don't know JavaScript
this might be painful for you.
Unless you just, you have tons of
experience on the back end and
you can get back end concepts and maybe
just work your way through JavaScript.
But you should totally
know some JavaScript,
a little Node experience
wouldn't hurt either.
If you're brand new to Node and you have
no idea how Node works, that's fine,
we can get through some of this stuff but
some Node experience would be great.
But by the end of the workshop,
you will have built and
deployed an API for
a blogging app that has authentication.
So as far as the application itself,
you will not be building that.
You actually built that
on another workshop.
So that's built for you,
the front end, the client.
You'll just be building
the server part for it.
So don't worry about messing
around with the actual web app.
We already built an app.
Cool.
Any questions so far?
All right.
So, let's just do a quick
refresher on Node.
Who in here has experience with Node?
Let me see your hands.
Okay.
A little bit, a little bit, none, okay.
So we're gonna do a little
bit of a refresher on it.
So I'm just gonna walk through
some examples, talk about
some of the things that are different,
what it is and then move on from there.
So, Nodejs is basically a way just to
run JavaScript outside the context of
a browser, that's it.
That's all it is.
It's not a server framework,
it's just, I want to be able to
run JavaScript outside of this.
That's what Nodejs is, is using the same
V8 that Google Chrome is using.
Or I mean, it's actually, Node is using
a different version of V8 but it is V8.
So we can use Node for many things now,
like tooling and servers, because we can
run it outside the context of the browser.
Just like you would be able to with
something like Python or Ruby.
So to get started,
if you have Node installed,
you can just type in Node in your terminal
and you'll get a full JavaScript REPL.
So what I mean by that is if you
go in your terminal with Node,
if you just type in node here,
you now have a REPL here.
This is JavaScript.
>> Speaker 1: All right.
>> Speaker 1: So
you have a full JavaScript REPL here.
So if you wanna be able to, it's the same
thing if you went into the Console inside
of Chrome minus the browser API stuff,
the browser specific things.
So that's how you know
you got Node working.
Like I said, but
note this is just JavaScript but
it's not in the context of the browser.
By the way, if you see spelling errors and
stuff in here,
I'm really bad at spelling so
just forgive me right now.
[LAUGH] Like that, but yeah, so
it's just JavaScript but it is outside
the contents of the browser so most of
the browser APIs do not exist in Node.
I can't come into Node and start doing
things I would expect in a browser, yeah,
let me just do a document.query selector.
Right, that's not gonna work.
>> Speaker 1: Document is undefined.
So this is not the browser, this is
just JavaScript outside the browser so
those APIs aren't there.
There are some that are there that
are very useful, like Console,
that's still there, Console.log,
Console dot, all that good stuff,
all that's still there, but a lot of the
other stuff isn't, so just remember that.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: A question came up, is there
a way to add the browser APIs to Nodejs?
>> Speaker 1: There are polyfills out
there that will mock some of the stuff and
in some cases, some libraries, because
Node and because of this whole universal
JavaScript thing where people wanna
run JavaScript on both server side and
client side, some code actually
needs those things mocked out.
So yeah, there are mocks there,
but realistically you wouldn't
even need that stuff.
You wouldn't need it for execution.
You might need it for a library to work.
For instance, I had to tell somebody the
other day, there's this animation library
that we use that's expecting these window,
or these browser APIs to exist.
And if it don't it'll error out on Node.
I would never use them in Node, but it
needs to be there in order for it to run.
So, sometimes you have
to mock this stuff out.
But people are getting to the point
where they're being more aware
of where their code is gonna be ran.
So they define their libraries
in something called a universal
module definition, which will allow their
JavaScript to either run in the browser,
in Node, and in any type of module format,
whether that's AMD or common JS.
So that's the newer way
to build your libraries.
So that's the thing that
people are starting to do now.
If you download something that
isn't like that, something that's
attached to the window, and you try to run
it in Node, probably gonna get an error.
So you can chase the errors and
figure out the polyfill yourself or
just convert it to Node yourself and
see what happens.
But, yeah, there are some
polyfills that do exist, but
people are moving away from that.
>> Speaker 1: So, if you were to install
Node, you will also notice that you get
something called NPM which, if you look
at it, you might think it stands for
Node Package Manager but
it actually doesn't.
It doesn't stand for Node Package Manager.
I actually don't even
know what it stands for.
So [LAUGH] it's not
Node Package Manager though.
I think it's a pun that the NPM
people came up with, but
it's not Node Package Manager,
which should be it.
So, NPM is actually a really,
really good package manager though,
as far as handling dependencies.
In fact, it's probably one
of the best that I've seen,
not even just related to JavaScript but
just in general.
So, it's kind of like if you've ever
used Homebrew or something like that,
it's very similar to that but just,
it might be a lot easier to use.
So the way NPM works, like I said,
it comes bundled with your
installation of Node.
It uses this file called a package.json to
store meta data about your packages and
what packages your package may need.
So it just reads that file depending
on the command you give it.
And that's how it knows what to install,
what do uninstall, what to update.
It's just a file.
So NPM is the standard.
There really aren't any other package
managers you would use with Node.
But they are two separate entities.
NPM is its own entity,
Node is its own entity.
They just happen to be working together
because they just work that way.
So, yeah, you'll see a lot of,
everything that we do as far as dependency
management will be through NPM.
There are other package managers out
there like Bower and stuff like that.
But Bower is a Node module that
you have to install with NPM.
And that's more for
client site dependencies.
So it's still all through NPM.
So, all third party
modules when downloaded
will be placed in a node
modules directory by default.
So we use NPM to go download something.
If there isn't already a node modules
directed at the root of our application,
one will be created.
And that's where all of our node
modules will be placed by default,
in a node modules folder.